---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basic Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-18
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---
The First WOD was about creating a webpage and adding simple elements such as headers, paragraphs and images. I had to create hyperlinks, add a table of contents and resize all the images to 100 pixels. The second WOD mainly focused on CSS and addin different styles to the webpage I created in the first WOD. I learned how to change the font and adjust margins. I also learned how to change the font color and background color. The third and final WOD was about changing the layout of the webpage. I needed to make the sections appear side by side and also needed to replace the table of contents with a navigation bar. 
BrowserHistory1 took me a while to do just cause it was the first WOD I have ever done. It took me two attempts to finish this and on the first attempt I was able to finish about half the tasks on my own before getting stuck on the hyperlinks and table of contents. I was able to complete all the other coding but those two elements confused me. After my first attempt I watched the demo and was able to figure out how to insert a hyperlink and table of contents. On the second attempt I finished everything and my webpage looked like the example. Overall I had a good experience with BrowserHistory1. 
BrowserHistory2 took me three attempts to finish. At first it looked like it would be easy to complete but I had trouble since CSS has a different format than html. The first attempt I could not finish by myself so I watched the screencast after. During my second attempt I was able to finish but it took a while since I forgot how to change the margins, and by the time I remembered I was already in the DNF time range. During my third attempt everything went smoothly and I was able to finish. 
Browser History 3 was the hardest for me and took three attempts. The first attempt went really bad and I had no idea what to do so I watched the screencast to see how to start everything. My second attempt went better since I was able to create the navigation bar but my sections were not lining up side my side. The sections were aligned left, right and center but they were not side by side. So I then watched the screencast again and my third attempt I was able to finish.
For future WODs I plan to read the tasks that I need to do first before actually starting a recording and attempting the WOD. I would read the tasks first and see what I will need to do and go to the reading that talks about the codes I will be using. I think this would help me a lot because on my first attempts I was using a lot of the wrong codes and did not know where to put the codes which made it very hard. I would also watch the screencast multiple times before another attempt so I remember what codes need to be entered. 
