---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-28
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---

[E3 Instructions](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html)

# Summary
  Since the last essay I was assigned to do 5 more WODs which will be talked about in this essay. There was one WOD which was a continuation from the Browser History WODs. Then there were four different WODs introduced with SmartPhoneProducts 1 and 2, along with Invoice 1 and 2. A lot of the material that was in the labs showed up in these new WODs which was great for me to see if I understand what I am learning. 

# Browser History 6
  Browser History 6 took be 2 attempts to complete and I finished the second attempt in the Av time range. I had to create 3 buttons which take you to 3 different webpages and also change the background color to black and text color to yellow. Overall it was not that hard but during my first attempt I could not figure out how to get the images to pop up when hovering over the button. I figured it out after watching the screencast and did well during the second attempt. 

# Smart Phone Products 1
  Smart Phone Products 1 was the easiest WOD for me since I was able to finish it in my first attempt within the Rx time range. All I had to do was create variables for price, name and image, then repeat that for 5 products. Nothing really confused me during this WOD since it was a lot of editing old code I had and did not need to add too much new code. 

# Invoice 1
  Invoice 1 took me 2 attempts and I finished within the Av time range. This WOD just consisted of creating products and calculating things like subtotal, tax and total. I had some trouble figuring out how to calculate the subtotal, tax and total during my first attempt which is why I could not finish it. After watching the screencast I saw that I needed to put 5.75% as 0.0575 in the code which really helped me when figuring out all the tax and totals. The document.write part went pretty smoothly since I am more comfortable using that. 

# Invoice 2
  For invoice 2 I was required to add a new column in the reciept for shipping costs. Then I needed to use if, else if, else statements to calculate what the shipping costs would be depending on the amount of the sub-total. Invoice 2 overall was not too challenging and only took me two attempts to finish. I was also able to finish pretty fast during my last attempt since there was not much tasks to complete. What worked well for me was creating more rows in the table and also using the document.write command. I am getting used to using the document.wrtie command and am understanding why it is good to use. Something that slowed me down was the if, else if, else statement. At first I was not too sure how this should be formatted which caused me problems. But after seeing the video and learning how to format the if, else if statement I was able to comeplete that task. 

# Smart Phone Products 2
  SmartPhoneProducts 2 took me 2 attempts and I finished within the Av time range. This WOD was challenging for me since there were loops involved which is something I am not to confident with yet. I had to watch the screencast to figure out how to write out the loop for the WOD. My second attempt was a lot better when doing the loop but I still got a little confused but eventually figured it out. Other than the loops this WOD was not too bad since I am good with using ${} to call variables. 

# Conclusion
  All the WODs were great practice for me to see my strengths and weaknesses so far. I definetly need to work on writing out loops and if, else if, else statements. Those two are the things that confused me the most when doing these WODs. To better prepare for the WODs I should be reviewing the labs that were done in class since a lot of the tasks for WODs are similar to the ones on the lab. This definelty would have helped me with the if, else if statements because I would have an example to look at. To prepare I will also continue to read whatever is assigned for that unit since its a good refresher for me to remember what the unit was about and how these codes are used. 
