---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-09
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---

# My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways
I have improved in making loops to pull the product information from my JSON or js file and display it on my HTML page. I also improved on my CSS skills as the semester has moved on. When designing my website for assignment 1, I thought I did a pretty good job of arranging all the products in a neat fashion and did not have much trouble with the CSS. The last thing I feel like I have improved on is my javascript and creating a server. I was very confused and had a hard time with the server side processing lab, but as I started creating a server for assignment 1 I was able to figure things out and create a decent server for my website. 

# I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills
I need to work on creating functions since this gave me the most problems when completing assignment 1. Functions can sometimes be difficult for me to put together especially when I start adding if, else statements in them. It can require lots of lines of code and it is frustrating when the function does not work the way I intended it to be. Like when I was trying to create the data validation for assignment 1 I had a function but it sometimes let invalid quantities through and they showed up in the invoice. I was able to fix the function to only let valid quantities through but it required a lot of help and took way too much time. 

# I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast
I have learned a lot from the WODs which have helped me when completing Assignment 1. I have been able to complete the Invoice 3, Smartphone 3 and Store1 without watching the screencasts, but it did take me a lot longer to complete and required more attempts. The algorithm WODs like making change and day of the week were very difficult for me to complete on my own, so I had to ask for the screencasts for these WODs. After watching the screencasts and completing these two WODs I now have a better understanding for algorithms but I am not as confident with this aspect of coding compared to the rest of the things I learned. 

# The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence
The labs are very helpful as I am able to learn new concepts and test them out in vs code. I am able to watch how the professor uses the code and also can see how to fix any errors that show up. Looking in the console for errors is one of the most helpful things that I have learned in the labs since the console says what is wrong and even includes what line the problem is on. The on your own section of the labs can be confusing sometimes since I am usually just learning about new concepts in class. I am able to complete the labs but I would not say with confidence, more like I can complete them but there are still some things I may not understand. 

# I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2
I have learned a lot from assignment 1 and it did take me a long time to complete it. I guess I am kind of ready for assignment 2 since we already went over the file i/o lab. Hopefully it does not take as long to complete as assignment 1 did but if I do get stuck then I will just email the professor or go to the office hours like I did for the previous assignment. 

# I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways
I think something that can help my learning is if the labs moved a little bit slower during class. When doing the labs it can be at a very fast pace which does not give me enough time to copy the code and understand what it does. Something that could help this problem could be screencasts of the labs so that I can try to get a better understanding of what just happened during the lab. A lab screencast would also be helpful for reviewing concepts before assignments and also can be used in case someone missed a class so they do not fall behind. 

# What helps me the most in class are
What helps me the most in class is the assignment workshops because I am able to work on my assignment in class and if I have a question then I can ask the professor right there instead of having to send an email or wait for office hours. This allows for quicker responses and it means I can solve problems faster and move on to the next steps in the assignment. During the workshops I was also able to talk to some classmates and we were able to check each others websites and were able to give feedback to each other. So it was a nice change to hear about what other people had to say and listen to their advice. 
