---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-22
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---

# Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details.
For assignment 2 I had to upgrade my previous website that I made and require users to login or signup before they could reach the invoice page. I also needed to create a way for the users data to be saved after they sign up so next time they can just login with their email and password. I needed to create some requirements when users signed up such as their passwords needed to be a certain length and emails in a certain format in order for it to be validated and saved. 
[Essay 5 instructions](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html)

# What did you learn from this assignment?
The main thing that I learned from this assignment was how to create validations for logins and signups. When sigining up I was able to restrict what characters a person could have in their emails and passwords. With the passwords I was also able to make some requirements such as the password needed one number and a speacial character or else the server would not let the user through. The last thing I learned about validation was how to create a length requirement for the full name and password section. 

# Did you work with a partner?
I did not work with a partner. 

# How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
When I needed help or encountered a problem I usually looked it up online, looked at the labs, asked a classmate or asked the professor. I needed help figuring out how to create the code to validate the signup information. I usually looked it up online to see how I should format the code since we did not learn this in class. Another thing I needed help with was that I had a permissions error popping up when running my website on the class server. I had to get help from the professor for this one and it got fixed. 

# How was developing this asignment different than assignment 1?
When developing this assignment I relied a lot more on the internet and looking things up or watching youtube videos. With assignment 1, most of the things that we were required to do was taught in class so I used the labs, readings and WODs to help me complete that. But with assignment 2 there were a lot more requirements that were not taught in class like the validations for logins and signups which made me do a lot more google searches. So the main difference for me was that I used the internet more than the labs, readings and WODs. 


# Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code, (c) testing and debugging.
I spent about 10% thinking about how to do something, 40% writing code and 50% testing and debugging. I usually do not spend too much time thinking abnout how to do something and go straight into writing code based off what I already know and learned. So maybe I should spend more time thinking and see if it helps me with assignment 3. I spent majority of my time writing code, testing and debugging. I took a lot of time testing to see if the code worked correctly and also did a lot of checks like checking I used the correct variables and  making sure I had the {} brackets lining up in my if statements. 

# Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
What worked well for me was creating the validations for users when they signup. I also was able to generate the error messages pretty easily if the signup information did not meet the requirements since it was kind of similar to the error messages I did in assignment 1. What did not work well for me was testing my website on the class server because I was getting a permissions error. Another thing that did not work well was my individual requirement since I do not think I did it correctly. 

# If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
If I could go back I would start assignment 2 earlier than I did. I was exhausted from assignment 1 so I took a break and started assignment 2 a little later than I wanted to. There was 2 weeks until assignment 2 was due but I probably did not start until less than a week left so that really hurt. I did not give myself enough time to work on the assignment which led to me not finishing all the requirements. So for assignment 3 I am getting started right away so I do not make the same mistake. 
