---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Checkpoint Assignment 3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-30
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---

# Show what each page will look like.
Checkpoint Screencast

# Describe your design for your site's shopping car. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.
On my website i will have the shopping cart be a separate page that the user can visit after they are done looking at the products. On this shopping cart page the user will be able to see what items they have selected and also remove items if they no longer want it. An example of using the cart would be if I wanted to change the quantity of an item or just remove it entirely then the user would have options available on the shopping cart page to do that such as + and - buttons next to the item.

# Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used. Use code examples showing what data structures you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in a session.
I will be using sessions to track what items and the quantity that a user adds to their shopping cart. I have not created any code for sessions but it would probably look something like this or similar to it. Ex- {Hard candy: [1,0,0,0,0,0], Soft candy: [1,2,3,4,5,6], chocolate: [6,5,4,3,2,1]}. I will have 6 products on each page so there will be six spots to track the number of each item that is ordered. 

# How will you avoid access to your application when the user had not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?
For security I can use cookies to keep track of if a user is logged in yet. If no cookies are found for a user then the user cannot access the cart or invoice page. If they are logged in then they can view the cart page but if they are not logged in then they will be redirected to the login page. Then once they login there should now be cookies for the user which allows them to view the cart and eventually the invoice. A security concern could be that a user somehow enters the cart without logging in, so this would require me to put some restrictions like how I did in assignment 2. 

# Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explan how you did or will do this.
To make the website more personalized I will have it so that after a user logins it will say "Welcome (users name)". I will also have the website display how many times the user logged in and display the last time that they logged in. I also have individual requirement 4 for this assignment which is to allow users to favorite an item and this is another way of personalizing the website. 

# If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work?
I am working by myself. 

# How are you approaching assignment 3 differently than assignment 2?
I will be starting this assignment a lot earlier than I did with assignment 2 since A2 was started late and was not good. I will also use the resources that are given to me like the assignment 3 code examples and labs because on A2 I relied a little too much on the internet which was often times hard for me to understand what is happening. Something I remember from my A2 reflection was that I did not spend much time thinking about what I was gonna do but instead just went in and started coding. So to make things easier for me and more organized I should make sure I think things through before making some random codes that do not work. 
