---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E7: Reflecting on Assignment 3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-12-14
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---

# Briefly describe your system.
My store website sells candy. The three candy categories that people can choose from are hard candy like skittles and airheads, soft candy like gummy bears and sourpatch and lastly chocolate like twix and kit kat. Each candy category has 6 items that users can choose from. 

# Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems or additional features not implemented?
One shortcoming was the design for website as I did not make it like look real or professional website but it still looks pretty good to me. I also was not able to do the encrypt password requirement which is probably the biggest thing I am missing. 

# Describe what you are most proud of about your system
I am most proud that I was able to create a website that works pretty well. This class was not easy for me and my assignment 2 was bad so being able to correct the mistakes from the previous assignment and add in most of the new requirements is something I am proud of. 

# Describe what you are least happy wtih your system
I am least happy about my design for the website as it does not look professional. I just saw the example website from professor port and mine looks nothing like that so I probably should have spent more time making my website look better. 

# How was developing this assignment different than assignment 2?
This assignment was different because we needed to add a cart to our website and also send an email after the purchase is complete. Another thing that was different is adding a navigation bar and using cookies for users logins. There was also a lot more time to finish assignment 3 compared to assignment 2 which was nice and made it less stressful for me. 

# When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
When I encountered a problem I would start off small and just check that I am using the correct variables and that everything is spelt correctly since I noticed I had a lot of mispelled things as I started testing the code. If I just did not know what to do or needed some guidance I would search it up on google and usually a helpful article or youtube video would pop up. I also used the labs a lot more during this assignment since I kind of forgot to look at them during the previous two assignments. 

# Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
What worked well was the invoice and sending the email to the user after the purchase. That was the easiest for me since it was in the code examples. 

# Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
What did not work well for me was my organization as it was hard to keep track of everything. I was using wrong variables, variables being spelt wrong and a bunch of other things being spelt wrong and missing () or {}. I spent a lot of time rereading the codes for spelling errors and checking variables. I ended up cleaning everything up but if I was more organized from the start the assignment would have gone smoother. 

# What did you learn from doing this assignment
The main thing I learned from this assignment is how cookies and sessions work. I also learned more and have a better understanding about validations for logins and signups as I was able to fix the errors from assignment 2. 

# If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
I would go all the way back to assignment 2 and do a better job on that becuase I had a lot of things to fix from that assignment which was extra work for me. I would also read the directions more carefully because there are some things that I missed and it is too late to be working on it now like the password encryption. 

# Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code, (c) testing and debugging
35% thinking, 15% writing and 50% testing and debugging. I spent a lot more time thinking about how to do something as I would watch youtube videos and read articles on how to get started on whatever task I am trying to do. 50% was testing and debugging since I had a lot of spelling errors and other errors that I mentioned before. 

# Estimated % on amount each team member contributed to assignment
I did not work in a group.
